			     Allen Gooch
		       2408 Drifting Leaf Drive
			 Cedar Park, TX 78613
			     512.496.3401
			allen.gooch@gmail.com

SUMMARY

    Senior software engineer with extensive network and systems
programming, applications development, and technology leadership
experience over full lifecycle of large-scale distributed systems,
web applications, and massively-multiplayer and peer-to-peer
online games.


SKILLS

* Experience in leading high-performance, effective teams in
  developing high-quality technology solutions.

* Expertise in distributed systems development including low-level
  socket communications, protocol design, network security, network
  topologies and infrastructure, communications middleware, and
  fault-tolerant, high-performance, high-availability distributed
  computing architectures.

* Expertise in applying network programming skills to problems
  inherent to online games in peer-to-peer and client-server
  distribution architectures.

* Expertise in the analysis, design and implementation of
  object-oriented, component-based, and functional programming
  software systems.

* Proficiency in web technologies and web application development.

* Expertise in software configuration management, release management,
  and software process improvement.

* Expertise in tools and technologies development creating
  well-documented, robust, and reusable tools, libraries, components
  and SDKs.
	 
* Expertise in agile, iterative and incremental methodologies, unit
  testing, and continuous integration.

* Expertise in systems administration of Linux, Unix, Windows and
  VMS servers.


TECHNOLOGIES

* Expertise in C++ and C on UNIX, Linux, and Windows platforms

* Expertise in Python

* Proficiency with Lisp, Java, C#, JavaScript, HTML, CSS, XML, SQL

* Database: Microsoft SQL Server, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Oracle, MongoDB

* Revision Control: Git, Perforce, Subversion, CVS

* Project Management: Microsoft Project, Microsoft Excel, FogBugz,
  JIRA, Hansoft, DevTrack

* Platforms: Microsoft Windows and Windows Server, Linux, Mac OS X,
  HP-UX, Solaris, Sony PSP, Sony PS3, Sony PS4, Xbox 360, XBox One


EXPERIENCE

Senior Software Engineer
BioWare/Electronic Arts, Austin, TX
2007-2015

* Led design and implementation of Biomon system, a system for collection
  and real-time querying of metrics exported by 'Star Wars: The Old
  Republic' MMO game services.

* Ported MMO engine and supporting technologies used by 'Star Wars: The Old
  Republic' MMO game services from 32-bit Windows platform to 64-bit Linux
  platform.

* Led team responsible for configuration, provisioning and control of
  'Star Wars: The Old Republic' MMO game and auxiliary services and provided
  support to its Development, Build, Configuration Management and Operations
  customers.

* Led design and implementation of custom matchmaking system for cancelled
  title for XBox One and PS4 consoles.


Senior Software Engineer
Midway Studios, Austin, TX
2006-2007

* Lead multiplayer engineer responsible for multiplayer technology for
  unannounced title on Xbox 360 and PS3 consoles.

* Worked with design and art in creating a fun and rewarding console
  multiplayer experience.

* Created schedules, tasking for multiplayer engineering team. 

* Assisted Blacksite: Area 51 team with user interface, matchmaking,
  TCR/TRC, and Xbox Live programming tasks. 

* Performed evaluation of Quazal matchmaking middleware solution for
  use by Midway Studios. 


Senior Software Engineer
Sony Computer Entertainment America,  Foster City, CA
2005-2006

* Primary engineer responsible for multiplayer aspects of PSP product
  under development.  Multiplayer feature set included game share,
  downloadable content from Internet site or Adhoc peer, and Adhoc
  multiplayer game play. 

* Evolved a legacy C code base to a more flexible C++ one capable of
  supporting maintenance and enhancement of primary product line at a
  much greater rate of delivery. 

* Performed migration from Visual Source Safe to Perforce and provided
  Perforce support to product development team. 

* Defined and instituted issue tracking solution for project,
  integrated with Perforce solution for full traceability of
  repository changes to issues necessitating the change. 


Senior Software Engineer
Video Gaming Technologies, Charlottesville, VA
2004-2005

* Defined and installed networking infrastructure/services to support
  development efforts in new engineering division.  This included
  installation and administration of firewalls, hardware and software
  VPNs, intranets, defect tracking solution, and configuration
  management solution in heterogeneous multi-site Linux/Windows Server
  2003 environment. 

* Developed lightweight, portable C++ COM framework capable of
  providing dynamically loadable components on DOS, Windows, and Linux
  platforms. 

* Extended a proprietary networking middleware system (OMEGA) to
  provide dynamic service discovery and provisioning enabling all
  single points of failure to be removed from primary casino services
  product, and enabling highly-availability and self-healing casino
  gaming service networks. 

* Evolved a legacy C++ client code base to a more flexible system
  capable of supporting maintenance and enhancement of primary product
  line at a much greater rate of delivery. 

* Developed patent-pending casino cashless gaming system providing
  capabilities to customers at a lower price point enabling greater
  customer retention and customer acquisition.

* Integrated casino cashless gaming system with multiple third-party
  cashless gaming web services.

* Defined, documented, and instituted software processes, coding
  standards, roles, activities, and methodologies. 

* Developed continuous integration tools in Python to enable automatic
  builds, deployment and test plan execution of primary casino gaming
  clients and services product. 


Contractor
Darden Solutions, Charlottesville, VA
2003-2004

* Developed three-tier career development Java system for a
  customizable suite of applications developed for and deployed by
  many top graduate business schools. 

* Developed reusable Java web components for web presentation layer.

Consultant
Ubisoft, Montreal, Quebec
2003

* Analyzed existing proprietary and third-party networking tools and
  technologies for fitness in peer-to-peer matchmaking and leader board
  systems.

* Analyzed resources and processes in game networking group for
  fitness in meeting business goals as related to corporate-wide
  multiplayer initiatives. 

* Made recommendations for future development of multiplayer game
  technologies.


Senior Software Engineer
Maxis, Charlottesville, VA
2002-2003

* Lead engineer responsible for various pieces of server software
  infrastructure for The Sims Online (TSO), a massively-multiplayer
  online game (MMOG). 

* Successfully led development team on high-risk, high-return project
  to add user stream encryption capabilities to the middleware
  platform (ARIES) providing significant risk-reduction of network
  attacks.

* Successfully led development team on project to add enhanced user
  authorization capabilities to the ARIES platform.  This project
  provided significant performance gains, lower complexity and greater
  functionality than the previously existing solution.

* Successfully led project to integrate TSO server systems with
  Electronic Arts (EA) online authentication/authorization systems.

* Developed continuous integration tools in Python to enable automatic
  builds, deployment and test plan execution of all ARIES platform
  code and the C++ and Java SDKs. 


Senior Software Engineer
Electronic Arts, Charlottesville, VA
2001-2002

* Producer and technical lead responsible for tools and technologies
  supporting online game development customers within Electronic Arts.
  These tools included the ARIES Online Environment, a service runtime
  for MMOG applications; Cadence, Component-Based Development SDKs of
  plug-and-play C++ and Java binary components, and Voltron, a source
  framework for MMOG development. 

* Successfully led development team on project to add dynamic service
  discovery and provisioning to the ARIES Online Environment.
  This project facilitated new and resilient service topologies and
  resulted in increased availability and reliability of network
  services, increased uptime and a better user experience. 

* Successfully led development team on project providing reusable C++
  and Java binary components for instrumentation and remote
  monitoring/management of ARIES network services.


Lead Software Engineer
WebG2, Charlottesville, VA
2000

* Developed demonstration technology of online marketing intelligence
  gathering/reporting system.

* Designed and implemented metadata-driven code generation tools.
  This allowed single-source representation of problem-domain
  concepts, which prevented code duplication, reduced defect rates,
  and provided total synchronization of generated C++, Java and SQL
  source code artifacts. 

* Successfully instituted eXtreme Programming methodologies enabling
  predictable software delivery at a lower defect rate than previously
  possible. 


Senior Software Engineer
EA.com, Charlottesville, VA
2000

* Post-acquisition of Kesmai by Electronic Arts, lobbied for adoption of
  proprietary middleware platform (ARIES) for Massively-Multiplayer Online
  Game development within EA. 

* Technical lead responsible for the continued evolution and
  development of the ARIES Online Environment and SDKs for EA.

* Successfully led project to provide enterprise-wide metrics
  collection SDKs for MMOG development within EA. 


Software Engineer
Kesmai, Charlottesville, VA
1997-2000

* Technical lead responsible for the continued evolution and
  development of the ARIES Online Environment and SDKs. 

* Successfully led initiative to enhance quality of deliverables
  through automated builds, continuous integration and testing, and
  consistent documentation of SDKs, standards and practices. 

* Architect and project lead of Voltron, a reusable white-box
  object-oriented C++/Java framework for game services running in the
  ARIES online environment. 

* Successfully delivered tested and documented C++ and Java binary
  component-based development SDKs, resulting in an explosion of usage
  of these components, and allowing greater flexibility in managing
  and upgrading of existing applications. 

* Started mentoring program within Tools and Technologies division to
  disseminate knowledge to junior programmers and enable continuous
  improvement of software development practices. 

* Initial member of Software Process Improvement initiative within
  Kesmai.  This task force defined the software development and peer
  review processes for all software developed in-house. 


Systems Programmer
James Madison University, Harrisonburg, VA
1995-1997

* Custom multicore concurrency server programming in HP-UX and VMS
  environments.

* Systems and network administration of heterogeneous HP-UX, HP MPE/iX,
  OpenVMS, and NetWare environment.


EDUCATION

James Madison University	
Harrisonburg, VA
B.M. Music Theory and Composition (incomplete)
